{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs22
\b \fs32 Layer 1 Design: Core XPath-Healer (Deterministic Engine) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Date: 2026-03-02\par
Layer: Core\par
Depends on: setup only\par
Required by: DB, Service, Model, Testing\par
\par
\b \fs28 1) Objective \b0\fs22\par
Build standalone healer core that can recover broken locators using deterministic strategy cascade.\par
\par
\b \fs28 2) Tech Stack \b0\fs22\par
- Python 3.11+\par
- Playwright async locator API\par
- dataclasses for domain models\par
- pytest for unit tests\par
\par
\b \fs28 3) Files and Methods (Exact) \b0\fs22\par
- `xpath_healer/core/models.py`\par
  - `LocatorSpec`, `HealingHints`, `Intent`, `ValidationResult`, `ElementSignature`, `ElementMeta`, `StrategyTrace`, `Recovered`, `BuildInput`, `CandidateSpec`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/config.py`\par
  - `HealerConfig.from_env()`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/context.py`\par
  - `StrategyContext.resolve_hints()`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/strategy_registry.py`\par
  - `register()`, `evaluate_all()`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/builder.py`\par
  - `build_all_candidates()`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/validator.py`\par
  - `validate_candidate()`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/signature.py`\par
  - `capture()`, `build_robust_locator()`, `build_robust_xpath()`\par
- `xpath_healer/core/healing_service.py`\par
  - `recover_locator()` and persistence/scoring helpers\par
- `xpath_healer/api/facade.py`\par
  - high-level API/wiring\par
\par
\b \fs28 4) Core Code Graph \b0\fs22\par
\par
\par
XPathHealerFacade.recover_locator\par
 -> HealingService.recover_locator\par
    -> _evaluate_candidates (per stage)\par
    -> validator.validate_candidate\par
    -> signature.capture/build_robust_*\par
    -> repository.upsert/log_event\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 5) Cascade Order (Must Match) \b0\fs22\par
1. fallback\par
2. metadata\par
3. rules\par
4. signature\par
5. dom_mining\par
6. rag(optional)\par
7. defaults\par
8. position\par
\par
\b \fs28 6) Input/Output Contract \b0\fs22\par
Input:\par
- `page`, `app_id`, `page_name`, `element_name`, `field_type`, `fallback`, `vars`, optional `hints`\par
\par
Output (`Recovered`):\par
- `status`: success/failed\par
- `correlation_id`\par
- `locator_spec` (on success)\par
- `strategy_id`\par
- `trace` (always)\par
- `metadata` (on success)\par
- `error` (on fail)\par
\par
\b \fs28 7) Exact Implementation Prompt (Core) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Implement Layer 1 (core) for xpath-healer using existing contract names.\par
Requirements:\par
1) Implement all domain dataclasses in core/models.py with JSON serialization helpers.\par
2) Implement LocatorSpec.to_playwright_locator for css/xpath/role/text/pw.\par
3) Implement deterministic HealingService cascade in exact order:\par
   fallback -> metadata -> rules -> signature -> dom_mining -> rag(optional) -> defaults -> position.\par
4) Every candidate must pass XPathValidator.validate_candidate.\par
5) Capture StrategyTrace entries for each attempt and include stage summary failures.\par
6) On success, persist ElementMeta with locator_variants and quality_metrics.\par
7) Keep async API surface and method names unchanged.\par
8) Add unit tests for validator, models serialization, registry ordering, healing service pass/fail cases.\par
Output file-by-file with runnable code.\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 8) Acceptance Criteria \b0\fs22\par
- Unit tests pass for core modules.\par
- Recovered trace includes fallback fail + later stage success on broken locator.\par
- Metadata contains `last_good`, `robust_xpath`, `robust_css`, `live_xpath`, `live_css` variants.\par
- Quality metrics present with uniqueness/stability/similarity/overall.\par
\par
\b \fs28 9) Prior Setup Needed \b0\fs22\par
- Python and venv\par
- `python -m pip install playwright pytest pytest-asyncio pytest-bdd`\par
- `python -m playwright install chromium`\par
}