{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs22
\b \fs32 Layer 2 Design: DB Layer (PostgreSQL + pgvector) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Date: 2026-03-02\par
Layer: DB\par
Depends on: core models\par
Required by: service and model layers\par
\par
\b \fs28 1) Objective \b0\fs22\par
Implement persistent metadata/event storage with schema, migrations, and repository contract compliance.\par
\par
\b \fs28 2) Tech Stack \b0\fs22\par
- PostgreSQL 15+\par
- pgvector extension\par
- asyncpg\par
- pgvector python\par
\par
\b \fs28 3) Repository Contract (Must Match) \b0\fs22\par
- `find(app_id, page_name, element_name) -> ElementMeta | None`\par
- `upsert(meta: ElementMeta) -> None`\par
- `find_candidates_by_page(app_id, page_name, field_type, limit=25) -> list[ElementMeta]`\par
- `log_event(event: dict[str, Any]) -> None`\par
\par
\b \fs28 4) Schema (Required) \b0\fs22\par
\par
\par
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vector;\par
\par
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS elements (\par
  id uuid PRIMARY KEY,\par
  app_id text NOT NULL,\par
  page_name text NOT NULL,\par
  element_name text NOT NULL,\par
  field_type text NOT NULL,\par
  last_good_locator jsonb,\par
  robust_locator jsonb,\par
  strategy_id text,\par
  signature jsonb,\par
  signature_embedding vector(1536),\par
  hints jsonb,\par
  locator_variants jsonb,\par
  quality_metrics jsonb,\par
  last_seen timestamptz NOT NULL DEFAULT now(),\par
  success_count int NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,\par
  fail_count int NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,\par
  UNIQUE(app_id, page_name, element_name)\par
);\par
\par
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS events (\par
  id bigserial PRIMARY KEY,\par
  correlation_id text NOT NULL,\par
  timestamp timestamptz NOT NULL DEFAULT now(),\par
  app_id text,\par
  page_name text,\par
  element_name text,\par
  field_type text,\par
  stage text,\par
  status text,\par
  score double precision,\par
  details jsonb\par
);\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 5) DB Code Graph \b0\fs22\par
\par
\par
HealingService\par
 -> MetadataRepository interface\par
    -> PostgresMetadataRepository\par
       -> asyncpg pool\par
       -> elements/events CRUD\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 6) Exact Implementation Prompt (DB) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Implement PostgresMetadataRepository in xpath_healer/store/pg_repository.py.\par
Requirements:\par
1) Add connect(), close(), init_schema().\par
2) Implement find/upsert/find_candidates_by_page/log_event exactly per MetadataRepository.\par
3) Use ElementMeta.to_dict()/from_dict() without schema drift.\par
4) Persist locator_variants and quality_metrics jsonb.\par
5) Ensure upsert by unique(app_id,page_name,element_name).\par
6) Add tests proving behavior parity with JsonMetadataRepository.\par
7) Keep method signatures unchanged.\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 7) Manual DB Testing in DbVisualizer \b0\fs22\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.1 Connect \b0\fs22\par
1. Open DbVisualizer.\par
2. Create new PostgreSQL connection.\par
3. JDBC URL: `jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/xpath_healer`.\par
4. Username/password: your local DB user.\par
5. Test connection and save.\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.2 Apply schema \b0\fs22\par
Run schema SQL above or call your migration scripts.\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.3 Verify tables \b0\fs22\par
\par
SELECT table_name\par
FROM information_schema.tables\par
WHERE table_schema='public' AND table_name IN ('elements','events');\par
\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.4 Insert sample element row \b0\fs22\par
\par
INSERT INTO elements (\par
  id, app_id, page_name, element_name, field_type,\par
  last_good_locator, robust_locator, strategy_id,\par
  signature, hints, locator_variants, quality_metrics,\par
  success_count, fail_count\par
)\par
VALUES (\par
  gen_random_uuid(),\par
  'demo-qa-app','text_box','full_name','textbox',\par
  '\{"kind":"xpath","value":"//*[@id=\\"userName\\"]","options":\{\},"scope":null\}'::jsonb,\par
  '\{"kind":"css","value":"#userName","options":\{\},"scope":null\}'::jsonb,\par
  'metadata.last_good',\par
  '\{"tag":"input","stable_attrs":\{"id":"userName"\},"short_text":"","container_path":[],"component_kind":null\}'::jsonb,\par
  '\{"attr_priority_order":["data-testid","aria-label","name"],"threshold":null,"visibility_pref":true,"aliases":\{\},"defaults":\{\},"allow_position_fallback":false,"strict_single_match":true\}'::jsonb,\par
  '\{"last_good":\{"kind":"xpath","value":"//*[@id=\\"userName\\"]","options":\{\},"scope":null\}\}'::jsonb,\par
  '\{"uniqueness_score":1.0,"stability_score":0.9,"similarity_score":1.0,"overall_score":0.95\}'::jsonb,\par
  1,0\par
);\par
\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.5 Query candidate retrieval behavior \b0\fs22\par
\par
SELECT app_id,page_name,element_name,field_type,success_count,last_seen\par
FROM elements\par
WHERE app_id='demo-qa-app' AND page_name='text_box' AND field_type='textbox'\par
ORDER BY success_count DESC, last_seen DESC\par
LIMIT 25;\par
\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.6 Insert event and verify \b0\fs22\par
\par
INSERT INTO events(correlation_id,app_id,page_name,element_name,field_type,stage,status,score,details)\par
VALUES ('corr-001','demo-qa-app','text_box','full_name','textbox','metadata','ok',0.91,'\{"source":"manual_test"\}'::jsonb);\par
\par
SELECT correlation_id, stage, status, score, timestamp\par
FROM events\par
ORDER BY id DESC\par
LIMIT 20;\par
\par
\par
\b \fs24 7.7 Optional pgvector smoke \b0\fs22\par
\par
ALTER TABLE elements ALTER COLUMN signature_embedding TYPE vector(3);\par
UPDATE elements SET signature_embedding='[0.1,0.2,0.3]' WHERE signature_embedding IS NULL;\par
SELECT id, 1 - (signature_embedding <=> '[0.1,0.2,0.3]') AS similarity\par
FROM elements\par
ORDER BY signature_embedding <=> '[0.1,0.2,0.3]'\par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 8) Acceptance Criteria \b0\fs22\par
- CRUD and event logging work from repository.\par
- Contract tests pass.\par
- DbVisualizer manual queries confirm data persists correctly.\par
}