{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs22
\b \fs32 Layer 4 Design: Model Layer (OpenAI + RAG Assist) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Date: 2026-03-02\par
Layer: Model/RAG\par
Depends on: core + DB + service config\par
\par
\b \fs28 1) Objective \b0\fs22\par
Provide optional AI-assisted locator suggestions as a last resort, without breaking deterministic guarantees.\par
\par
\b \fs28 2) Tech Stack \b0\fs22\par
- OpenAI Python SDK\par
- Embeddings model: `text-embedding-3-large`\par
- LLM model: `gpt-4.1`\par
- pgvector retrieval\par
\par
\b \fs28 3) Required Interfaces \b0\fs22\par
- `Embedder.embed_text(text) -> list[float]`\par
- `Retriever.retrieve(query_embedding, top_k=5) -> list[dict]`\par
- `LLM.suggest_locators(prompt_payload) -> list[dict]`\par
- `RagAssist.suggest(inp, dom_snippet, top_k) -> list[LocatorSpec]`\par
\par
\b \fs28 4) Model Layer Code Graph \b0\fs22\par
\par
\par
HealingService (rag stage)\par
 -> RagAssist.suggest\par
    -> OpenAIEmbedder.embed_text\par
    -> PgVectorRetriever.retrieve\par
    -> OpenAILLM.suggest_locators\par
    -> parse/sanitize -> LocatorSpec list\par
 -> validator.validate_candidate for each candidate\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 5) Prompt Design (Strict) \b0\fs22\par
System prompt:\par
\par
You are a locator suggestion engine.\par
Return only JSON array.\par
Each item: \{"kind":"css|xpath|role|text|pw","value":"...","options":\{...\}\}.\par
Prefer stable attributes; avoid absolute/deep index XPath.\par
No markdown, no explanation.\par
\par
\par
User payload fields:\par
- `field_type`\par
- `intent`\par
- `vars`\par
- `dom_snippet` (bounded)\par
- `context` (retrieved examples)\par
\par
\b \fs28 6) Exact Implementation Prompt (Model) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Implement optional model layer adapters for xpath-healer.\par
1) Create openai_embedder.py implementing Embedder.\par
2) Create pgvector_retriever.py implementing Retriever.\par
3) Create openai_llm.py implementing LLM.\par
4) Add prompt_builder.py with strict JSON-only prompt templates.\par
5) Add retries/timeouts and robust JSON parsing.\par
6) Drop invalid/unsafe locators before returning.\par
7) Ensure deterministic fallback path if model/API unavailable.\par
8) Add unit tests with mocked OpenAI client.\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 7) Integration Rules \b0\fs22\par
- RAG is disabled by default (`XH_RAG_ENABLED=false`).\par
- Missing `OPENAI_API_KEY` must not fail deterministic healing.\par
- AI suggestions are candidate-only; validator decides acceptance.\par
\par
\b \fs28 8) Acceptance Criteria \b0\fs22\par
- With RAG disabled: identical behavior to deterministic baseline.\par
- With RAG enabled: stage trace includes rag attempts.\par
- Invalid model outputs do not break request flow.\par
}