{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs22
\b \fs32 Layer 5 Design: Testing and Automation \b0\fs22\par
\par
Date: 2026-03-02\par
Layer: Testing/Automation\par
Depends on: all layers\par
\par
\b \fs28 1) Objective \b0\fs22\par
Validate full solution via unit, contract, integration, and BDD regression.\par
\par
\b \fs28 2) Existing BDD Scope \b0\fs22\par
Feature: `tests/integration/features/demo_qa_healing.feature`\par
- TC1: text-box fill + submit\par
- TC2: checkbox Home icon select + message verify\par
- TC3: webtables first-row verification\par
- TC4: intentional negative raw invalid fallback xpath\par
\par
\b \fs28 3) Testing Code Graph \b0\fs22\par
\par
\par
pytest -> unit tests (core/store/rag)\par
pytest-bdd -> integration steps\par
  -> Playwright browser/page fixtures\par
  -> XPathHealerFacade recover calls\par
  -> artifacts (screenshots/videos/reports/logs/metadata)\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 4) Commands (Canonical) \b0\fs22\par
\par
\b \fs24 4.1 Compile check \b0\fs22\par
\par
python -m compileall -q .\par
\par
\par
\b \fs24 4.2 Unit tests \b0\fs22\par
\par
python -m pytest -q tests\\unit\par
\par
\par
\b \fs24 4.3 Integration BDD \b0\fs22\par
\par
python -m pytest -q -rs -m integration tests\\integration\\test_demo_qa_healing_bdd.py --cucumberjson=artifacts/reports/cucumber.json\par
\par
\par
Expected baseline:\par
- `3 passed`\par
- `1 failed` (intentional TC4 negative)\par
\par
\b \fs28 5) Artifacts to Verify \b0\fs22\par
- `artifacts/reports/integration-junit.xml`\par
- `artifacts/reports/cucumber.json`\par
- `artifacts/reports/steps.jsonl`\par
- `artifacts/reports/healing-calls.jsonl`\par
- `artifacts/reports/integration-report.html`\par
- `artifacts/logs/integration.log`\par
- `artifacts/logs/healing-flow.log`\par
- `artifacts/screenshots/*.png`\par
- `artifacts/videos/*.webm`\par
\par
\b \fs28 6) Exact Implementation Prompt (Testing) \b0\fs22\par
\par
Implement full testing stack for xpath-healer.\par
1) Keep unit tests for core/store/rag modules.\par
2) Keep pytest-bdd integration feature with TC1..TC4.\par
3) Ensure broken fallback xpath is used to trigger healer in positive scenarios.\par
4) Ensure step screenshots and one video per test are captured.\par
5) Generate junit, cucumber json, steps jsonl, healing-calls jsonl, and custom html report.\par
6) Keep TC4 as intentional negative scenario to demonstrate raw xpath failure reporting.\par
7) Add contract tests for PG repository and API response schemas.\par
\par
\par
\b \fs28 7) Release Exit Criteria \b0\fs22\par
- All non-negative tests green.\par
- No high-severity defects open.\par
- Logs and reports include traceability from request to healed locator.\par
}